Welcome to Jeremy’s IT Lab. This is
a free, complete course for the CCNA.
If you like these videos, please subscribe
to follow along with the series. Also,
please like and leave a comment, and share the
video to help spread this free series of videos.
Thanks for your help. Also, remember to sign
up via the link in the description to get all
of the lab files for this course, so you
can try it out yourself in packet tracer.
If you want more labs like these, I highly
recommend picking up Boson’s NetSim for the CCNA,
click the link in the video description to check
it out. It’s a network simulator like packet
tracer, but it’s even better, and it includes
all of these guided labs to not only help you get
hands-on practice configuring and troubleshooting,
but also deepen your understanding of the exam
topics. If you want to get NetSim, please
follow the link in the video description.
In this lab we will use Laptop1 to connect to SW2,
a new switch which has not yet been configured.
Now, in reality you would probably configure
the switch before connecting it to the network,
but I’ve already connected SW2 to R2. So, let’s
get right into it. Step 1 says to connect Laptop1
to SW2’s console port and perform some basic
configurations. So, from ‘connections’ I’ll select
the console cable, it’s this light blue one. Then,
connect it to Laptop1’s RS232 port, and finally to
SW2’s console port. Now let’s go on to Laptop1,
and from the desktop tab click on terminal.
These default terminal settings are correct,
so click on OK. And now I’m in the CLI of SW2.
Now let’s perform some basic
configurations. First up, the host name.
ENABLE. CONF T. HOSTNAME SW2. Okay, you
can see here the host name has changed.
Next let’s set an enable secret. If no enable
secret is set, when you connect via Telnet or SSH
it won’t let you access privileged exec mode. Now,
there is a way to change that, you can manually
set a high privilege level on the user you create,
but I’ll cover that in a later video on security.
For now just make sure you have an enable secret
configured, so you can access privileged exec mode
when connecting remotely. So, ENABLE SECRET ccna.
These passwords are case-sensitive, by the way.
Next, let’s create a login account. I’ll
cover more details about user accounts in
the security section, but the basic command is
USERNAME, then the username, jeremy in this case,
then either PASSWORD or SECRET, I’ll use
SECRET, and finally the password itself,
ccna. As I mentioned earlier in the course, if you
use PASSWORD the password is stored in plain text,
not encrypted. Even if you use the
SERVICE PASSWORD-ENCRYPTION command,
the encryption isn’t as strong
as if you use SECRET instead.
Next let’s configure SW2 for remote management
by configuring an IP address on its VLAN1 SVI.
INTERFACE VLAN1. IP ADDRESS 192.168.2.253
255.255.255.0. In packet tracer, at least
this model of switch, the SVI is shutdown by
default, so let’s enable it with NO SHUTDOWN.
Then we get two Syslog messages saying the
interface came up. Okay, finally I’ll configure
SW2’s default gateway. EXIT. IP DEFAULT-GATEWAY
192.168.2.254. If a host is in SW2’s local subnet,
SW2 can communicate directly with it. However
to communicate with hosts outside of the local
subnet, SW2 needs to know its default gateway,
so that’s why we have to use that command.
Next, in step 2 we’ll configure a few
security settings on the console line.
LINE CONSOLE 0. There is only one
console line, so the number is always 0.
Now let’s configure local authentication. LOGIN
LOCAL. So, to connect to the console line a user
will have to use the account we configured before.
Then, I’ll set the exec timeout. EXEC-TIMEOUT 5.
Note that you don’t have to specify 0 seconds,
you can just specify 5 minutes and then hit enter.
Now to test the local authentication I’ll use END
to return to privileged exec mode, and then
EXIT to log out. Hit enter, and now I’m asked
for a username, jeremy, and a password,
ccna. ENABLE. And again, password of ccna.
Okay, now step 3 is to configure
SW2 for remote access via SSH.
First, let me try to generate
RSA keys. CONF T. CRYPTO KEY
GENERATE RSA. Since SW2 doesn’t have a domain
name yet, it can’t generate the keys. So,
let’s specify the domain name.
IP DOMAIN NAME jeremysitlab.com.
And now I’ll try to generate the keys again.
CRYPTO KEY GENERATE RSA. And I’ll specify
the key modulus size of 2048 bits, and it works.
RSA keys are used for encryption and decryption,
by the way. I’ll give some more detail in
the security section of the course. Okay,
now before configuring the VTY lines I’m going
to configure an ACL to limit access to PC1 only.
I’ll just use a simple standard ACL. ACCESS-LIST
1 PERMIT HOST 192.168.1.1. I want to limit access
to SSH only, no Telnet, but we can do that with
the TRANSPORT INPUT SSH command so there isn’t
actually any need to specify the port in the ACL.
Now I’ll configure the VTY lines. LINE VTY 0 15.
First I’ll configure local authentication. LOGIN
LOCAL. And the same 5 minute exec timeout as
on the console lines. EXEC-TIMEOUT 5. Then I’ll
restrict access to SSH only, TRANSPORT INPUT SSH.
And finally, apply the ACL I configured
before. ACCESS-CLASS 1 IN. That’s it.
So, let’s test it out. First, I’ll try from R2,
which shouldn’t be able to connect because of
the ACL. First, I’ll try a ping. ENABLE. PING
192.168.2.253. Okay, so R2 is able to ping SW2.
How about SSH? SSH -L jeremy 192.168.2.253.
And the connection is refused by SW2. Perfect.
Next I’ll try from PC1, which should be able
to SSH because the ACL permits PC1 only.
First I’ll try to ping SW2
from PC1. PING 192.168.2.253.
The ARP process can be slow in packet tracer, so
a few pings might fail, but after that the pings
will succeed. So, PC1 can reach SW2 with ping,
how about SSH? SSH -L jeremy 192.168.2.253. Okay,
enter the password of ccna and we’re in. So, PC1
was able to connect to the CLI of SW2 using SSH.
In this lab we configured
some console line security,
and enabled SW2 for remote access via SSH.
That’s all for this lab. Now let’s take a look at
a bonus lab in Boson Software’s NetSim for CCNA.
Okay here's today's Boson NetSim practice lab.
The lab I have selected is configuring SSH.
So, we will configure SSH here on Router1 in this
lab. These are the commands you need to know.
We covered almost all of the commands, but there
is one or two that I didn't cover in the lecture
video. Okay, so those are the commands, and
the lab tasks. There are two tasks with quite
a few steps but they're all pretty quick so
I think we'll do the whole lab in this video.
So let's get right to it. First, from PC1 we'll
attempt to ping this subinterface on Router1.
So, 10.10.0.1. And okay, so two of
them timed out and then the others
went through. So PC1 does have
reachability, it can ping Router1.
Next, in step 2 we will attempt to
Telnet to that same interface. Okay.
Okay, looks like it works. What is the
password? It says right here, boson.
Okay, so we are able to Telnet to Router1.
And then for step 3 I exited out of that Telnet
session. Step 4, we will try to SSH to Router1.
And the connection is refused by Router1. Okay,
so the SSH session fails. And step 5, on Router1,
okay let me open up a connection, determine
whether SSH is enabled or disabled. Okay so the
command is SHOW IP SSH. And it is disabled. Okay,
attempt to enable SSH version 2. Was it enabled?
Let me see, IP SSH VERSION 2 is the command. And
it tells us to create RSA keys to enable SSH.
Okay, so next in step 7 let's create those RSA
keys. CRYPTO KEY GENERATE RSA. But it doesn't
work because Router1 does not have a domain name
configured. So I'll configure that. IP DOMAIN NAME
boson.com. And then one more time, in step 9 we
will create those RSA keys. And it works. So the
modulus size is 1024 bits, okay. Next, step 10.
Configure an SSH session timeout of 90 seconds.
Okay, so this is a command I didn't
mention in the lecture video.
It is..actually first, let me check
the second part. What is the default
and maximum timeout value? You can view that
with this command again. Here, 120 seconds.
So, to configure it it's IP SSH
TIME-OUT, and we'll set it to 90.
Okay, and then finally enable SSH
version 2. I think it already is enabled,
it says it here. But I'll enter that
command once more. IP SSH VERSION 2, okay.
Okay, step 12. Configure a local username that has
a password of boson and privilege level 15. Okay,
so we will configure a privilege level. I didn't
mention this yet, but the command is USERNAME
admin PRIVILEGE 15, that's the maximum, and it
says PASSWORD, so not SECRET, PASSWORD boson.
Okay and then step 13, we will configure
the VTY lines to allow only SSH. So,
0 15. And TRANSPORT INPUT SSH. Okay so now let's
try that SSH again in task 2, verify SSH access.
So from PC1 let's try that again. Same command,
and it works. We are asked for the password. That
means we were able to connect. The password is
boson, and there we go. Oh, no password set,
okay. While, the SSH session is active, verify the
SSH version and key size used for the session. So,
we didn't set an enable password, so I can't
enable. I could go straight to Router1.
Here, I'll tell you what. ENABLE SECRET boson.
And then go back to the SSH session here on PC1.
And now we are able to use ENABLE. The
password is boson, there we go. SHOW SSH
gives us information about the current SSH
sessions. So this is different than SHOW
IP SSH. SHOW SSH tells you about the current
connections. So, connection 0 is using version
2. This is the kind of encryption used. It gives
us information about the state, and the username.
Okay, while the SSH session is active, determine
the username, okay I just pointed that out,
it's here, admin. Exit the SSH session.
And then attempt to Telnet. Okay,
so we configured TRANSPORT INPUT SSH,
so this should fail. TELNET 10.10.0.1.
And the connection is refused. Okay, so that was
a quick look at Boson Software's NetSim for CCNA.
As you can see here there are tons
of practice labs for the CCNA,
so if you want some extra guided, detailed
practice labs I highly recommend Boson
NetSim. If you want to get NetSim, please
follow the link in the video description.
Before finishing today’s video I want
to thank my JCNP-level channel members.
To join, please click the ‘Join’ button under
the video. Thank you to Raj, Kenneth, Seamus,
H W, Brandon, Samil, Aaron, Marcel, Kone,
Donald, C Mohd, Gustavo, Anthony, Junhong,
Benjamin, Tshepiso, Justin, Prakaash, Nasir,
Erlison, Marko, Daming, Jhilmar, Ed, Value,
John, Funnydart, Velvijaykum, Mark, Yousif, Boson
Software, Devin, Lito, Yonatan, and Vance. Sorry
if I pronounced your name incorrectly, but
thank you so much for your support. This is
the list of JCNP-level members at the time of
recording by the way, February 25th 2021. If
you signed up recently and your name isn’t on
here don’t worry, you’ll be in future videos.
Thank you for watching. Please
subscribe to the channel,
like the video, leave a comment, and share the
video with anyone else studying for the CCNA.
If you want to leave a tip, check the links in the
description. I'm also a Brave verified publisher
and accept BAT, or Basic Attention Token, tips
via the Brave browser. That's all for now.